---
title: Init
---
I haven't been creating new noats lately because I switched focus (again). Since I'm making a concerted effort to write more, I will detail this switch here.

One thing I have found that seems to be interesting is finite geometries. I first got into this when studying projective planes, and again when I started looking into combinatorial design theory. An issue is that many materials on finite geometry use theorems from algebra, particularly basic Galois theory. I have not yet learned this theory, so my lack of algebra knowledge seems to be something that is holding me back.

Another wall I ran into was trying to study Katznelson & Katznelson's *A (Terse) Introduction to Linear Algebra*. I found it to be a little too terse in a few crucial spots (namely, what an "algebra" is), and also I felt like my lack of understanding of ring and field theory (again, Galois theory comes up!) was holding me back.

So Algebra is a priority again. I'm reading Aluffi's *Algebra: Chapter 0* again, because I think there is  merit to studying algebra explicitly from a category-theoretic perspective.

I can't ever seem to study just one thing, so what's the other thing I'm studying? Graph theory. Another interest of mine is combinatorics, and graph theory fits in well here. It is also, like algebra, basically self-contained, so I can study these two subjects without having to dip into other things. Also, graph theory is great fun. I'm using West's graph theory text to begin with, but I would like to move to Bondy & Murty's latest edition when I get more comfortable.
